When we're faced with challenging assignments,
reliance on Jehovah is of utmost importance.
In what ways can we show that reliance?
I have the pleasure of introducing you to a friend of mine,
Shane Brady, who is presently serving along with his wife,
Yolanda, at the branch in Finland.
Brothers Shane Brady and I previously worked together
at the Canada branch.
Shane has been involved in legally defending our brothers
for the past 22 years in many countries,
including Armenia, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgyzstan.
Shane, it's good to see you. How are you doing?
You're doing very well. It's great to see you too, Mark.
Shane, we want to ask you what have been some of the challenges
that you've faced in accepting these assignments
in various countries in the world?
Well, there certainly have been a few challenges.
One is frequent travel. Another is language.
Each country that we assist has its own language.
Some court cases are very stressful.
And at times, we've faced firsthand the hatred of our composers.
Yes. And you know, Shane, in spite of all that,
you and your wife have always been willing to go on these assignments.
We appreciate your spirit so much.
Is there an experience that you can share with us
that would give us a taste of the kind of situations
that you've had to deal with in these countries?
Well, there have been many experiences.
One experience that comes to mind a few months ago,
there was a special pioneer, a case was started against him.
And if the decision was negative, it could be
have very serious consequences for our work in that country.
So we did our best to present a strong defense.
But as the trial progressed, things didn't seem to be going so well.
But on the last day of the trial, everything changed.
We presented a motion and we asked the judge
to terminate the case against the brother.
Personally, I didn't think it would actually work.
But one older brother that we worked with over the years,
he always told us we need to give you
hope of something to bless. And so we did.
And the results were quite unexpected.
When we made the motion, the judge turned to the prosecutor
asked, well, what's your opinion?
And to our surprise, the prosecutor agreed with our request.
And he even went beyond what we asked.
He said to the judge that the government official
that started the case against our brother
should be punished.
Well, the judge agreed the case was terminated.
When we were walking out of the courtroom,
I looked at the other brothers with me.
And we all said the same thing like, what happened?
Well, it was obvious.
Jehovah had intervened.
That's wonderful, Shane.
I wish we had more time to hear many more experiences.
But could you just share at least one more with us?
Sure.
In another land where our work is not recognized,
on the night of the memorial,
a number of the brothers were arrested
for so-called illegal religious activity.
They were all convicted of trial.
So arrangements were made to appeal each of those cases.
And they were heard before a different appeal court judge.
What at first seemed quite negative,
the law set trial turned out to be an amazing result.
Let me give you just one example.
In one of the appeals as we were presenting the appeal,
not long into the case, the appeal court judge stopped us.
And he began to ask us many questions about the Bible,
about what Jehovah's Witnesses believed.
So for quite some time, we answered these biblical questions.
And then the case continued.
And then after some minutes, the judge stopped us again.
And this time the judge said,
I remember reading in the Bible.
The judge said this.
I remember reading in the Bible that Jesus said,
if they have persecuted me,
they will persecute you also.
So we said to the judge, yes.
Indeed, that Jesus said that.
The judge asked,
do you think that's the reason why
Jehovah's Witnesses are having problems in this region?
Well, what could we say, but agree with the judge?
But that wasn't the end of it.
As the case continued,
a few minutes more, the judge stopped us again.
And this time the judge said,
you know, I'm not sure if Jesus said this.
It's in the Bible where he said,
where there are two or three gathered together,
there I am in your midst.
And we assured the judge indeed, those are Jesus words.
And the judge looked out at this old courtroom,
which was filled with our brothers and sisters and he said,
well, Jesus must be in our midst today.
We felt like breaking into applause.
At the end of the court hearing the judge
ruled in our favor, acquitted the brother
and the judges and all of the other cases
were also acquitted our brothers.
It was just a thrilling experience.
Oh, that's wonderful.
That's wonderful, Shane.
Thank you so much for sharing those experiences.
You know, despite the challenges that you've had to face,
how do you feel about the way you and Yolanda have benefited from
being involved in accepting these challenging assignments
in various parts of the world?
Well, we have benefited in so many ways, Mark.
Our relationship with Jehovah has has deepened.
Certainly, our trust in Jehovah has been strengthened.
And we've experienced firsthand the love
of the amazing worldwide brotherhood.
Could I just share one experience about that?
But please, please do.
Two years ago, we were involved in a case
where police had raided a congregation meeting in one country.
They had brutally beaten the brothers,
threatened the sisters.
It was just terrible.
Some weeks later, in the court case that continued or started
against the brothers, the police brought against the brothers.
During that court case, the police repeatedly tried
to arrest me and another brother I was working with over two days.
They were trying to arrest us.
Even in the courthouse, they tried to detain an arrest.
And all this, all through this, my wife, Yolanda,
was watching what was happening.
But you know, what was so remarkable was, despite the brutal treatment,
our brothers and sisters had endured just a few weeks earlier,
at the hands of these very same police officers,
those dear brothers and sisters came to our aid.
They were like a wall of protection around us
and they would not leave our side until the ordeal was done.
It was love and action.
So to answer your question, we have benefited in so many ways.
We don't regret for a moment.
Accepting this thrilling assignment.
Well, thank you so much, Shane.
Please give our love to Yolanda as well.
We appreciate the tremendous work that you're accomplishing
and Major Hove's spirit continue to be with you.
It's our privilege.
We look forward to continuing to work with you, Mark.